Brady Lund: All right. Welcome everyone to Module 3
Brady Lund: this week. We're going to talk about some of the basic concepts of information science. And then you'll see in the module for this week we have our 1st assignment, so after I go through our few slides here.
Brady Lund: I will go ahead and
Brady Lund: provide a bit of an overview of the upcoming assignment. So you know what to expect and what you need to do in that assignment.
Brady Lund: So, as I said this week we're talking about some of the basic concepts of information science. So
Brady Lund: what is the scope? The breadth of everything contained within this discipline of ours?
Brady Lund: So the 1st thing to know about information science is obviously that
Brady Lund: we deal with information. But what is information?
Brady Lund: So this is a pretty popular diagram here.
Brady Lund: used in a variety of different disciplines, but we use it in information, science as well, and it shows the relationship
Brady Lund: between 4 different concepts, data, information, knowledge and wisdom. It's called the DIKW. Pyramid.
Brady Lund: and it's really a useful diagram to help understand our particular field.
Brady Lund: So in the world, in our experience. We are regularly encountering data
Brady Lund: data being raw facts, symbols, inputs, things that we can sense and feel about the world around us. So if we can sense light from a from a ceiling light hitting us. Then we're receiving some kind of stimulus. We're sensing something.
Brady Lund: and that is some form of data. If we look at a list of different numbers or words. That is data.
Brady Lund: It's raw.
Brady Lund: We don't have any meaning to it yet. We don't know what it means. But we are sensing something. There is something out in the world that can be sensed.
Brady Lund: Information, then.
Brady Lund: is applying meaning to the data around us. So when we talk about information, we're talking about data, this stimulus, this
Brady Lund: everything in the world around us.
Brady Lund: but applying some kind of meaning to us, understanding what it means. Why is this here? What is this collection of words? Is it a a book? Is it a poem?
Brady Lund: So on and so forth?
Brady Lund: And so you can see the example on the right here, you know, raw, you sense the color red
Brady Lund: meaning you've applied some context or meaning to it. So
Brady Lund: information. You learn that it's a traffic light
Brady Lund: knowledge, apply more context and understanding to what information you've gathered, and essentially taking information and applying it to another context. So in the example, here, the traffic light you're driving towards has turned red.
Brady Lund: In the case of reading a book or a poem, you're learning something from that book or poem that can be applied outside of the context, that you read it in that book or poem.
Brady Lund: And then wisdom is applying knowledge. So in this case wisdom is, I better stop the car. But in the case of reading a book, maybe you've read how to
Brady Lund: fix your washing machine.
Brady Lund: and the knowledge is the new knowledge of fixing the washing machine. But wisdom is actually applying that knowledge to do something with it. So when we talk about information science, we're
Brady Lund: primarily talking about either taking data
Brady Lund: and making sense of it. So making information out of data by doing analyses and those kinds of things.
Brady Lund: We're taking information and turning it into knowledge by organizing it by arranging it so people can find the information they need, and then apply that into knowledge. So we work
Brady Lund: kind of in between these different realms here, facilitating the process of turning data to information, to knowledge and so forth.
Brady Lund: So what is a document.
Brady Lund: Well, a document is a specific form of information. It is a specific record that stores data or information. So a document can be printed or digital. We have word documents that are digital on our computer. We have print documents, we have documents that are like notebooks, right?
Brady Lund: And that is documented information.
Brady Lund: So that is one form
Brady Lund: of recorded information. Obviously, we could have other forms of recorded information like audio files videos.
Brady Lund: But this is one important type of document because it provides a stable and constant record. So if we're talking about working in records management, if we're talking about working in a library situation, we're dealing primarily but not exclusively, with documents written work. We don't have the actual
Brady Lund: author of this work there in the library to speak to us and ask questions to. We don't have always a recording of them, but we have these documents that have recorded the information that they thought was important to share.
Brady Lund: Documents can contain structured or unstructured data or information. So if I've organized my information into a book, obviously, it's structured information. If I've organized a data sheet and created analyses and things that's structured data. But it could just contain random words, facts, figures that are unorganized as well, and it still qualifies as a document.
Brady Lund: So again, some examples of that books, articles, the actual physical movies that have information about the movie data sets.
Brady Lund: emails.
Brady Lund: So some some common questions thinking about this definition of a document. It needs to be a record that stores and communicates some kind of data or information
Brady Lund: are text documents like phone text are those documents?
Brady Lund: Consider that they are. That
Brady Lund: text exchange is stored right? In that case it's a digital record. If you were to text and immediately delete the text. Then it was at a point in time a document that has since been deleted.
Brady Lund: and then some of the more curious questions within information science
Brady Lund: would be something like our elephants documents.
Brady Lund: In the time that elephants are alive they store and communicate some kind of data. Right? You can sense things about elephants. You can understand something about elephants by observing them
Brady Lund: by looking at the features of them.
Brady Lund: But they're not what we'd call a traditional document, right? We think of a document as like a piece of paper or a document on our computer.
Brady Lund: But according to the definition in the extent that an elephant can communicate something by you, sensing it and understanding it in a physical form, it could be considered a document.
Brady Lund: So what is a library?
Brady Lund: Some of you will be in this program because you're interested in librarianship. So of course, you're working in libraries, physical libraries. But libraries can be digital as well and pretty much regardless of what job you're going to do in information science, you're going to work with some kind of digital library, right? Database of resources.
Brady Lund: So even if you're working in systems management. You're going to be working with digital libraries
Brady Lund: and libraries are simply just repositories for documents. So we've worked up our different levels. We started in the Dikw saying, what is information?
Brady Lund: Where I defined information as data that has meaning? A document is a recorded information so recorded in a physical or digital format. And we're saying, libraries are repositories for documents. So when we have a lot of documents stored together, we have a library.
Brady Lund: and they do not just store documents. We don't just throw a bunch of documents in a in a pile.
Brady Lund: but we need some kind of organizational system to logically support the arrangement and help people find the resources they need. So that's a key aspect of a library. Again, regardless of the format of the library.
Brady Lund: So libraries of various types have existed for thousands of years, really, but only in their
Brady Lund: current form that we see today in the past couple of centuries. But before that we always had some kind of storage for documents, important government documents, religious documents, and so forth. So you can study libraries going back.
Brady Lund: millennia in that format.
Brady Lund: The last thing we're going to really talk about here is, how do we interact with information? We're going to talk about this more as we progress through the semester. But let's talk about a few of the main ways that we interact with information.
Brady Lund: Well, one way is we create information. We create information. When we're interacting with information in the world around us. When we talk to people, we're sharing information. That's not a document
Brady Lund: because we're talking. There's no permanent record of it. But we're still sharing information, and we record things within documents.
Brady Lund: We also organize information. So we put some kind of structure to it. So people can come back and find it at a later date.
Brady Lund: We retrieve information. So we don't just put information in these libraries and store these records. But we're doing that. So people can come along and find the information they need, retrieve it and use it right. And that's the next step using information. So we use information. Information does not just exist out there.
Brady Lund: but information exists for the purpose of us being able to go back and use it. If there was no use to the information. If there was no meaning to the information, then it's not information. It's just data, right?
Brady Lund: And then preservation of information.
Brady Lund: We recognize that even if certain forms of information, certain
Brady Lund: content of information may not be super relevant to us right now.
Brady Lund: or even if it is relevant to us right now it may continue to have relevance or may develop future relevance. And so we preserve information in a variety of forms so that people can access it at a future date.
Brady Lund: So that is the content that we're talking about this week.
Brady Lund: And now let's talk briefly about our assignment for this week. So our assignment this week is called What is information science. And you have 2 options for this assignment. Please only pick one of the 2 options. You do not need to do both.
Brady Lund: Pick one of these 2 options. So you're going to present some information about the important concept
Brady Lund: or figure, person or organization related to information science, the early development of information science.
Brady Lund: So your 1st step is to identify what topic you use. So there's a variety of different topics you can choose from.
Brady Lund: If you can think of another topic you're interested in, please email me, I will probably approve it. But I do want to take a look just to make sure it's relevant. So send me an email so we can determine that it's relevant to what we're talking about this week or select one of these topics here that are individuals and concepts that are important to the basis of information science.
Brady Lund: Once you've selected the topic.
Brady Lund: then you're going to make a choice about whether you want to do a 10 min recorded Powerpoint presentation
Brady Lund: or a thousand word research paper. So the choice is totally yours.
Brady Lund: There are, of course, benefits and drawbacks to both.
Brady Lund: With the Powerpoint presentation you need to create 8 slides, and then you need to record yourself for 10 min presenting those slides. And I provide information here about what you need to include in each slide and the grading criteria for each of those sections. Make sure it's visually appealing. Make sure it lasts at least 10 min. Make sure it has the number of slides you need.
Brady Lund: So 10 slow total, with 8 of the slides, including a image or visualization of some sort. So 10 slides total.
Brady Lund: Make sure it has all of those elements.
Brady Lund: If you choose a research paper. It's a thousand word paper.
Brady Lund: Make sure you include the title page in a reference list.
Brady Lund: and then you provide an overview in the same way you might with the Powerpoint.
Brady Lund: In either case, make sure you do your own research.
Brady Lund: make sure you include some references to scholarly resources that you found the information from
Brady Lund: make sure to avoid plagiarism and AI use. I do have a variety of tricks and ways of determining whether you use AI. I am an AI researcher. So I actually spend a fair bit of time studying different strategies to catch people using AI which could be pretty embarrassing if you get caught. So please make sure to avoid it
Brady Lund: again. It's a 10 min Powerpoint presentation or a thousand word research paper. The goal is to see you start to develop some knowledge and competency related to one specific concept. You can see there's some we've talked about like the dikw pyramid.
Brady Lund: There's some favorite theories of mine like diffusion of innovations which is really useful. And there's some important figures. And I tried to pick a variety of figures from different countries, contexts.
Brady Lund: and different contributions they make to our discipline.
Brady Lund: So that is an overview of our 1st assignment.
Brady Lund: If you have any questions, of course, feel free to email me, contact me. We can always set up a Zoom Meeting if you need me to walk through something. I'm more than happy to help. Just be sure not to wait until the very last minute to ask for help.
Brady Lund: or I might not be available on Sunday evening, for instance. So
Brady Lund: please feel free to reach out to me during the week. If you see any questions
Brady Lund: other than that, I'll look forward to seeing you again next week, and have a great rest of your week.
Brady Lund: Bye-bye.